I wasn't taking ROTC at the time. All right.
Incidentally, when I finished A&M, I
volunteered. I went to OCS, the Army, and my
training as the ROTC helped me to get into OCS. So
your A&M preparation... helped me to get into OCS.
Now you graduated when? 8 a.m. 1938.
Did you go to commencement?
I don't really remember. Things like that were
not... You don't remember who the speaker was? No.
Do you remember when you got that ring? No. Well, I
remember when I got this one, I lost the first one in
New Guinea. Oh, did you? I was swimming in New
Guinea, and it fell off in the Indian Ocean. Oh, my.
And then I got this one while I was overseas. I
bought another one. And incidentally, this ring
only cost maybe $30. Do you remember what the first
one cost? It wasn't over $30. wasn't much 25 30
dollars as i remember what or maybe do you have any
other ring stories you lost one in the indian ocean
uh what about some others about somebody spotted
your ring or something like that now that hasn't
been found no but is was there times when somebody
noticed your ring on your yes i took up tickets at
the football games for thirty-some odd years.
I've seen a lot of the spirit change there.
Arkansas, I remember gung-ho they'd come in, and
they were always a good crowd.
The Texas crowd always came in when I was working on
the gates, dressed up pretty real good. and even up
until a few years back and even today I could go to
the baseball game and you'd be surprised at the
number of young Aggies, girls and all, will show
you this old worn out ring and recognize it and
introduce themselves or ask me what class I'm in
and was in. And it's surprising how so many have
really, over the years, these young people,
recognized that ring. In OCS and later, what was it
that you learned here that helped you? What was
there about A&M that made a difference? Well,
respect of authority, that's one thing. And
understanding the principles of drilling and
commands. And respecting authority is one of the
biggest things I think I learned. And to do what
you're told to do. What is Aggie spirit?
Well, I saw that one time. I was on a boat going up to
Tokyo, Yokohama. We had left the Philippines, and
I was with a young man, a fellow, and he had
graduated from some military school in Virginia,
I believe, somewhere. And he had gone into a class.
See, at that time then they were bringing in Aggies
from ROTC that had a commission, but they were
making them go into another, what, refresher
course. And if they didn't pass that refresher
course, they didn't keep them on duty. And he had
learned every Aggie yell, even though he was with a
bunch of Aggies. He had learned every Aggie yell
and learned that. However, he did say this, that
they had one or two Aggies that were a little bit
hanging back, and he said they could have really
carried them through, but they didn't do it. He
said he was somewhat surprised that they let them
drop out.
I remember him saying that. I remember over in New
Guinea, though, there was an old colonel in charge
of the Air Force. We had a,
we sent a plane down to Australia and we got some a
keg of beer and some chickens. And we had the Aggie,
what do they call it, reunion? Mustard. Mustard.
We had that in New Guinea there one time. And there
were a bunch of Aggies there in New Guinea at the
time. Was that a meaningful experience? Well, it
was. This old colonel that I knew, And we got a bunch
of Aggies there together and had a monster there.
And he'd let us send a plane down to, I wasn't in, I
was attached to that unit. I wasn't in the Air
Force. And send a plane down to Australia and get a
keg of beer. some barbecued chickens now, that was
a treat. And we got a bunch of aggies and had a nice
muster. Do you remember going to muster when you
were a student? No, I don't. I haven't found many
people that remember muster before World War II.
The only one I actually remember was when I was in
New Guinea. What are the qualities of being an
aggie? What's special about an aggie?
Well, as I remember
there, we were with each other and respected each
other and trusted each other and
felt like that our other Aggie
would be there to help us or whatnot.
And
most of us at that time, you might say, understood
and respected where these others came from, that
they were poor boys, too. See, any one I think that
was a feeling that had maybe perhaps is different
from today. We all knew the backgrounds of these
people, what a lot of them did to be able to come to
A&M, which drew us very well together.
And there wasn't anybody, you might say, football
players or anybody that was any more than somebody
else. And it didn't matter where you came from or
who your father was? That's right. And of course we
didn't have any politics. That wasn't the
internet to any of
us. What have we left out that we should have
covered?
Well, I don't know. I
can't
Well, let's see. When I finished A&M,
until I got this job in New Orleans, I went down to
Houston to try to see about getting a job. Jobs were
very hard to get, very hard. There was a green
company down there, Archer I'm thinking,
I would have been able to get a job there, but they
called me in and said, we don't care whether you
graduated from college or not. And that was the
general attitude.
They said, no, but we'll let you get a job. We'll put
you on the dock out here. load and unload and feed
and drain, and we'll see how you turn out.
Also, I had a chance, possibly, of getting a job
with a concrete company in Houston
as a clerk or something like that.
And I almost had another chance of getting a job, I
believe it was with Guff Refining Company in the
accounting department, since I had some
accounting at A&M. But that wasn't very
promising, and
I ended up getting this job in New Orleans with
American Cotton Co-op as a cotton class. I was what
they called a squidge, as I remember. I had to work
as a squidge or an apprentice until later. But I
worked there in the classroom rooms there in New
Orleans. Made seventy-five dollars a month and
lived there, and I live down in New Orleans now for
ten thousand. I lost my job when they put the
twelve-cent loan on.
Let's see, I'm near the end of the questions. I can
think I've got three or four. Let's make believe
that someone comes up and gives you a check for a
million dollars today and there is one
restriction on that check. You must pass it on to
Texas A&M but you get to decide what the money would
be used for. In other words, if you could make a big
contribution to A&M, what would you want it to do?
I believe mostly it would be for scholarship, not
research. Scholarships for whom? What kind of
students? Well, I try to make it for
students who Not financially, but go to A&M. How
would you select the most deserving ones?
I haven't given that a whole lot of thought.
Could they major in anything? Would it matter? No,
it wouldn't matter because I found that The more
you continue to learn throughout life, and
regardless of what you take, in other words, it's a
good idea to get an overall
thing done. All right, next to the last question.
What did it mean to your life that you went to Texas
A&M?
Well, I've always been proud of the college and
that I could, I think it's helped me a whole lot. It
helped me.
I haven't been real successful in making a whole
lot of money. However, I'm financially stable
now.
I think I learned something way back there when I
went to A&M
that I wouldn't have gotten at some other school.
What feelings do you have in your heart for A&M
today?
Well, today I think, for instance, I went to the
baseball game the other day. I had hard season for
them. And I just love A&M, particularly now the
baseball.
I feel fortunate that I can go to baseball games at
A&M, in preference to pro games down in Houston or
Dallas, and I I like to see it because I think that
those boys are playing there for the love of A&M. A
lot of them know they're not going to be
professionals, but they're playing and it'll
help them later in life.
I don't care to see some of the
research that's going on in A&M now. And I don't
like particularly sometimes they have some
professors I've heard that some of the students
don't understand. Sometimes,
of course, the classes are larger, but we've got to
accept that. I
can't say I could carry the love for Antium now as I
did back there when it was a college. I feel
fortunate, and I wouldn't mind going through it
again. I wouldn't change it. I'm glad.
I'm happy about it. all right now that's the end of
the real interview but I'm worried that we didn't
get that first part I'm worried about our machine
so let's go back and you again please summarize
growing up where you were born your family and that
that first five minutes or so that you did this
morning okay where were you born what'd your
family do where'd they come from that sort of thing
where'd y'all live Well, I was born somewhere
around College Station on September 22, 1913.
My mother was the daughter of W.C. Boyd,
lived at College Station, and he lived, he built a
home there located where the campus theater is
now.
I was born, I didn't, there was no birth
certificate when I was born. Later in my life, when
I went in the Army, my mother had to fix a birth
certificate up for me. I moved to San Antonio when I
was very young, and then moved back to College
Station when I was about eight years old, and my
mother had a house across from my grandfather
which is, my grandfather lived, as I say, in the
home he built while the campus here is.
And I went to Consolidated School, the old band
hall on the campus. I had to walk from my house over
across the campus, and I remember going across the
drill field all of the That's
where I graduated from in 1931. And how
many in your class? You think 15? It might have been
15, possibly 20 at the most, I think. And campus and
country? What's that? Both. Consolidated school
was composed of what we called the campus kids and
the off-campus kids. I was an off-campus kid. And
the country kids. The country kids came from
around maybe Welborn and out at Rock Prairie. And
the buses carried those kids back and forth. The
rest of us had to walk school. which was no problem.
And some of the key teachers at the school that you
remember? I remember we had a principal came named
Gross. He took several of us one time over to
Huntsville. I don't know what for. Also, I had a
teacher,
Mrs. Burgess, which was the wife of Herschel
Burgess, and Mrs. Burgess was the daughter of Dr.
T.O. Walton, and she taught English, I think it
was, or some courses there at Consolidated
School. I liked her very much, of course. Also,
there was a Mrs. Dokes at Consolidated School, and
she was very well liked. Matter of fact, we liked
all of our teachers really. There was no teacher
that I knew of that we didn't like.
I told you about A&M about Mr. Snuggs. You got that,
haven't you? I think we got it. I believe now we're
caught up.